> Staking is the process of locking your SWTH tokens to participate in the security and maintainence of the Switcheo TradeHub. In exchange, you will be rewarded with SWTH tokens as both staking rewards and share in the fees the delegators you choose have collected.

## Validator Support

The Switcheo team has asked that the `io` validator be phased out of support. This is a 2nd validator node controlled by the Switcheo team and they are looking to phase it out to help other validators join the network and help better distribute the security of the network.

## Rewards Definition

* **Block Rewards** - generated by the network with each block, rewards are SWTH tokens in proportion to amount staked.
* **Fee Rewards** - when interacting on TradeHub every transaction requires a network fee, these are split amongst delegators and validators.

## Rewards Schedule

> The intial phase comes with higher risks and to incentivize activity higher rewards are offered!

| Week | Total SWTH Supply | SWTH Minted  | Weekly Inflation |
|------|-------------------|--------------|------------------|
| 0    | 1,000 million     | 19.2 million | 1.92%            |
| 1    | 1,019 million     | 18.9 million | 1.86%            |
| 2    | 1,038 million     | 18.6 million | 1.79%            |
| 3    | 1,056 million     | 18.3 million | 1.73%            |

## Tips & Tricks

> One of the most important items to note about staking is to understand that there is an unbonding period of 30 days to unstake your tokens. This includes transfering staked tokens over 2 different validators, you will not be able to transfer out of this validator for 30 days. During the unbonding period your tokens will not accumulate staking rewards!!

* Always keep a couple of SWTH in your wallet to ensure that you can pay the required 1 SWTH transaction fee to stake, claim, delegate, transfer, etc.
* Efficient Fees
  * Claiming accumulated staking rewards requires paying a network fee of 1 SWTH per claim.
  * Staking any amount of tokens back into a validator also requires paying a network fee of 1 SWTH per stake
  * Staking tokens into a pool will also claim accumulated staking rewards, this means it can be to your advantage to stake into a pool to also claim. This reduces the number of transaction fees but also would delay any "restaking" till the next time it is executed

## Bonding and Unbonding Definition

* **Bonded** - the state which your SWTH tokens are staked and earning rewards.

* **Unbonding** - the state where your SWTH tokens are unstaked but are not yet tradeable/transferable due to an earlier unstaking action. The unbonding period for SWTH on Switcheo TradeHub is 30 days. **During those 30 days you will not earn any rewards**.
  * There is no unbonding period when you redelegate/restake your SWTH tokens to a different validator. **BUT** you can only redelegate your SWTH tokens between validators once otherwise another transfer results in a 30 day waiting period to transfer.

## Risks

> Phase 0 & 1 comes with higher risks but the most rewards! Please consider this risk when moving forward with any of these options.

1. Validators have no control over your staked SWTH tokens and your SWTH tokens always remain in your possession/TradeHub wallet.

2. However, your staked tokens can be slashed in the event your delegated validator commits a penalty.
  * **Double Signed Block** - 5% slashed
  * **Missed Signed Blocks** - 0.1% slashed
  * **NOTE** - If a validator is slashed all delegator funds are automatically unbonded to protect against further loss.

3. Price fluctuations while staking during Phase 0 without an exit path back to the NEO blockchain.

4. Failure of the TradeHub protocol or Switcheo team.

## FAQ

There is a lot of material above that is referenced from the following [Switcheo Staking FAQ](https://support.switcheo.network/en/articles/4354028-staking-faq)